README.md, before:

# xdbc selector

This is the beginning of convenience tools for interacting with MarkLogic.

## Warning

It is not even alpha but just some very early work and might change a lot.

## Installation

Get xdbc-selector and put it into a directory, e.g., ~/src/xdbc-selector
```
  cd ~/src
  git clone --recursive https://github.com/xquery-mode/xdbc-selector.git
```

Put this in your ~/.emacs or ~/.emacs.d/init.el:

```
;; Uncomment the following line if your Clojure project uses lambdawerk.marklogic:
;; (provide 'lambdawerk.marklogic)

(require 'xdbc-setup  "~/src/xdbc-selector/xdbc-setup")

;; default server configuration
;; Note: You don't need this section if you use an LW configuration service.
(setq xdmp-servers
  '(:rest-server (:host "localhost" :port "8000" :user "admin" :password "admin")
    :xdbc-server (:host "localhost" :port "9000" :user "admin" :password "admin")))
;; make sure that cider-any-uruk has our current XDBC server configuration
(xdmp-propagate-server-to-cider-any-uruk)
```

Get uruk and put it into your code directory, e.g., ~/src/
```
  git clone https://github.com/daveliepmann/uruk.git
```

Note: xdbc-setup does some initialization in addition to just loading the
  xdbc-selector.  If you want to do this step yourself, and just load the
  bare xdbc-selector, have a look at xdbc-setup.el to see how the loading
  is done, and replace the require 'xdbc-setup line by something you prefer.

Warning: xdbc-selector contains its own versions of cider-any, xquery-mode,
  and page-break-lines. Make sure it does not conflict with local files
  in your Emacs configuration. If in doubt, remove any other version.

## Set up leiningen project

Start cider repl in a leiningen project. The Uruk library must be
pinned in the project.clj in the dependencies section.

You can use just a stub project that acts as a gateway like:
```
lein new app uruk-gw

cat > uruk-gw/project.clj <<__EOL__
(defproject uruk-gw "0.1.0-SNAPSHOT"
  :description "FIXME: write description"
  :url "http://example.com/FIXME"
  :license {:name "Eclipse Public License"
            :url "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html"}
  :dependencies [[org.clojure/clojure "1.8.0"]
                 [uruk "0.3.3"]]
  :main ^:skip-aot uruk-gw.core
  :target-path "target/%s"
  :profiles {:uberjar {:aot :all}})
__EOL__
```

## Usage

Cider-jack-in to an uruk project and try the xdbc-selecter by entering  C-c m
There is help if you press '?' afterwards.

Note: If you use an LW configuration service, first enter  C-c m g  to fetch the
      configuration for the MarkLogic connection from the LW configuration service.

With  C-c m x  you can just evaluate an xquery from a minibuffer.

All other commands have usually a lowercase version for the current database, and
a UPPERCASE one for the modules database of the current session/connection.

### Complete list of available selector methods:

- general methods:
  - C-c m ? - Selector help buffer
  - C-c m q - Quit / abort
- simple xquery evaluation:
  - C-c m x - Evaluate an xquery from minibuffer
  - C-c m X - Evaluate an xquery from minibuffer in the modules database
- document management:
  - C-c m l - List documents †
  - C-c m L - List documents in the modules database †
  - C-c m s - Show document
  - C-c m S - Show document in the modules database
  - C-c m t - Show this document at point
  - C-c m T - Show this document at point in the modules database
  - C-c m u - Upload a document
  - C-c m U - Upload a document in the modules database
  - C-c m d - Delete a document
  - C-c m D - Delete a document in the modules database
- database selection:
  - C-c m c - Choose/select database within current session/connection
  - C-c m . - Select default database of the server
  - C-c m , - Select modules database of the server
  - C-c m - - Show which database is currently used
  - C-c m / - Show which database is currently used
- LW configuration service:  
  (Just ignore this section you don't have such a service or don't know what it is.)
  - C-c m g - Get connection settings for ML connection from LW configuration service
- Cider convenience functions:
  - C-c m j - (cider) Start an nREPL server for the current project and connect to it.
  - C-c m r - (cider) Select the REPL buffer, when possible in an existing window.
  - C-c m R - (cider) Switch to the last Clojure buffer.

† - For paged output, set page limit with xdmp-set-page-limit.
    Use numerical prefix to switch to a different page.  
    (Cannot list documents with an URL not beginning with a '/'.)

#### Note on upload and delete document methods
To use upload and delete document you should have the file that
is to be transfered or delete open in a buffer. If you fire
the command the filename will be taken from the buffer and
you will be interactively queried to enter a directory path.
The file will be uploaded with a uri of <directory>/<filename>.
Delete works analogously.

Commit message:

update README: project got replaced

README.md, after:

# xdbc selector

This is the beginning of convenience tools for interacting with MarkLogic.

## Replaced by Oook selector

The xdbc-selector was replaced by
[Oook selector](https://github.com/xquery-mode/Oook-selector).

## Warning

It is not even alpha but just some very early work and might change a lot.

## Installation

Get xdbc-selector and put it into a directory, e.g., ~/src/xdbc-selector
```
  cd ~/src
  git clone --recursive https://github.com/xquery-mode/xdbc-selector.git
```

Put this in your ~/.emacs or ~/.emacs.d/init.el:

```
;; Uncomment the following line if your Clojure project uses lambdawerk.marklogic:
;; (provide 'lambdawerk.marklogic)

(require 'xdbc-setup  "~/src/xdbc-selector/xdbc-setup")

;; default server configuration
;; Note: You don't need this section if you use an LW configuration service.
(setq xdmp-servers
  '(:rest-server (:host "localhost" :port "8000" :user "admin" :password "admin")
    :xdbc-server (:host "localhost" :port "9000" :user "admin" :password "admin")))
;; make sure that cider-any-uruk has our current XDBC server configuration
(xdmp-propagate-server-to-cider-any-uruk)
```

Get uruk and put it into your code directory, e.g., ~/src/
```
  git clone https://github.com/daveliepmann/uruk.git
```

Note: xdbc-setup does some initialization in addition to just loading the
  xdbc-selector.  If you want to do this step yourself, and just load the
  bare xdbc-selector, have a look at xdbc-setup.el to see how the loading
  is done, and replace the require 'xdbc-setup line by something you prefer.

Warning: xdbc-selector contains its own versions of cider-any, xquery-mode,
  and page-break-lines. Make sure it does not conflict with local files
  in your Emacs configuration. If in doubt, remove any other version.

## Set up leiningen project

Start cider repl in a leiningen project. The Uruk library must be
pinned in the project.clj in the dependencies section.

You can use just a stub project that acts as a gateway like:
```
lein new app uruk-gw

cat > uruk-gw/project.clj <<__EOL__
(defproject uruk-gw "0.1.0-SNAPSHOT"
  :description "FIXME: write description"
  :url "http://example.com/FIXME"
  :license {:name "Eclipse Public License"
            :url "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html"}
  :dependencies [[org.clojure/clojure "1.8.0"]
                 [uruk "0.3.3"]]
  :main ^:skip-aot uruk-gw.core
  :target-path "target/%s"
  :profiles {:uberjar {:aot :all}})
__EOL__
```

## Usage

Cider-jack-in to an uruk project and try the xdbc-selecter by entering  C-c m
There is help if you press '?' afterwards.

Note: If you use an LW configuration service, first enter  C-c m g  to fetch the
      configuration for the MarkLogic connection from the LW configuration service.

With  C-c m x  you can just evaluate an xquery from a minibuffer.

All other commands have usually a lowercase version for the current database, and
a UPPERCASE one for the modules database of the current session/connection.

### Complete list of available selector methods:

- general methods:
  - C-c m ? - Selector help buffer
  - C-c m q - Quit / abort
- simple xquery evaluation:
  - C-c m x - Evaluate an xquery from minibuffer
  - C-c m X - Evaluate an xquery from minibuffer in the modules database
- document management:
  - C-c m l - List documents †
  - C-c m L - List documents in the modules database †
  - C-c m s - Show document
  - C-c m S - Show document in the modules database
  - C-c m t - Show this document at point
  - C-c m T - Show this document at point in the modules database
  - C-c m u - Upload a document
  - C-c m U - Upload a document in the modules database
  - C-c m d - Delete a document
  - C-c m D - Delete a document in the modules database
- database selection:
  - C-c m c - Choose/select database within current session/connection
  - C-c m . - Select default database of the server
  - C-c m , - Select modules database of the server
  - C-c m - - Show which database is currently used
  - C-c m / - Show which database is currently used
- LW configuration service:  
  (Just ignore this section you don't have such a service or don't know what it is.)
  - C-c m g - Get connection settings for ML connection from LW configuration service
- Cider convenience functions:
  - C-c m j - (cider) Start an nREPL server for the current project and connect to it.
  - C-c m r - (cider) Select the REPL buffer, when possible in an existing window.
  - C-c m R - (cider) Switch to the last Clojure buffer.

† - For paged output, set page limit with xdmp-set-page-limit.
    Use numerical prefix to switch to a different page.  
    (Cannot list documents with an URL not beginning with a '/'.)

#### Note on upload and delete document methods
To use upload and delete document you should have the file that
is to be transfered or delete open in a buffer. If you fire
the command the filename will be taken from the buffer and
you will be interactively queried to enter a directory path.
The file will be uploaded with a uri of <directory>/<filename>.
Delete works analogously.
